[blog] Material UI: 2024 EOY updates blog post (#44722)
mui/material-ui: docs/pages/blog/material-ui-2024-updates.md

---
title: Material UI 2024 end-of-year updates

> description: A look through Material UI during 2024, and a sneak peek of what's to come.

Reviewer: here's one way you might punch this up a little

```suggestion
description: Recapping our biggest accomplishments for Material UI this year; plus, a look at what's to come in 2025.
```

date: 2024-12-11T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['diegoandai']
tags: ['Material UI', 'Product']
manualCard: true
---

> As the end of the year approaches, we want to take some time to review some of this year's highlights for Material UI and update you on what the community can expect moving forward.

Reviewer: to be more conversational

```suggestion
As the end of the year approaches, we want to take some time to review some of this year's highlights for Material UI and update you on what you can expect moving forward.
```

> 

Reviewer: I think I would add a header for `## Highlights` here and then make all of the highlights h3s.

## Material UI v6 release and support

> We released Material UI v6 in August, offering new features, fixes, and a smoother migration experience. So far, almost a million users have successfully migrated.

Reviewer: don't forget one sentence per line :)

```suggestion
We released Material UI v6 in August, offering new features, fixes, and a smoother migration experience. 
So far, almost a million users have successfully migrated.
```

The reception for the new version has been very positive, and we hope many more users can migrate in the upcoming months.

Our focus has been on responding to v6-related issues to support your migration. We thank everyone in the community who has helped by reporting or fixing problems and encourage everyone else to migrate. We are happy and ready to help!

## React 19 support

As of today, Material UI v5 and v6 support React 19. This has been one of our main focuses during the second half of 2024.

Next up, we'll update Material UI's dependencies and type versions once React 19 is stable.

> We hope you start trying it, and we're very grateful to the community members who have been and continue to test and report issues.

Reviewer: Here's how I'd phrase this:

```suggestion
We've worked hard to ensure that the upgrade experience is as seamless as possible, and we're very grateful to all the community members who've been testing it out and reporting issues.
```

## Material Design 3

> A year ago, we shared that we expected to have a Material Design 3 implementation by the end of 2024. Due to the efforts mentioned above, this has not been the case yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A year ago, we shared that we expected to have a Material Design 3 implementation ready by the end of 2024. 
Due to the more pressing efforts mentioned above, we have not been able to deliver on this yet.
```

> Updating the look and feel in such a big way is very complex. We want to provide the best experience for everyone and we're currently discussing and working on the best way to achieve it. This will be one of our main focuses for 2025.

Reviewer: elaborating a little here to make the language stronger; I'd also suggest moving a sentence from the next section up here

```suggestion
Updating the library's look and feel in such a big way is an incredibly complex undertaking that can't be rushed.
We're committed to providing the best experience for all users and use cases, and we're working hard to determine the best way to accomplish that.
This is one of our top priorities for 2025, and we'll keep you updated on our progress.
```

## Looking towards 2025

We're planning a new major release for the first half of 2025: Material UI v7.

> This version will fix issues that require breaking changes, including the long-awaited ESM support improvements, and other small fixes.
> 
> Note that, while this major release won't contain visual updates since its only focus is fixing bugs, we'll keep exploring the best way to update the look and feel in parallel. We'll continue sharing any details as soon as we reach any decisions.

Reviewer: here's how I'd construct this section. Could drop the last clause there after the "—" if we don't want to say anything about v8 at all.

```suggestion
This version will fix issues that require breaking changes, including the long-awaited ESM support improvements, and other small fixes.
While v7 won't contain visual updates since its sole focus is fixing bugs, rest assured that we will be working on updating the look and feel in parallel—that work could potentially become Material UI v8, but right now it's too early to say for sure.
```

## Follow along

> Feel free to leave your feedback on these new features and fixes in our [GitHub](https://github.com/mui/material-ui). We'd love to chat with you and are as excited as everyone to update how Material UI looks and feels.

Reviewer: Is there a more specific call to action we could run with here? We don't really want to encourage folks to open issues to submit feedback unless it's something actionable on our end like a bug report or a request to improve the docs.

I would propose one CTA to either:

- direct users to upgrade to v6 if they haven't already, or
- ask for feedback on v7 / v8 plans (are there umbrella issues we could link to?)

Author: I'll add an invitation to upgrade, but we've decided not to open an issue for feedback for now

Reviewer 2: Context on why there won't be a v7 issue: We need to keep the scope as tight as possible to focus on delivering v8 in time.

## Material UI v6 release and support

We released Material UI v6 in August, offering new features, fixes, and a smoother migration experience. 
So far, almost a million users have successfully migrated.

The reception for the new version has been very positive, and we hope many more users can migrate in the upcoming months.

Our focus has been on responding to v6-related issues to support your migration. We thank everyone in the community who has helped by reporting or fixing problems and encourage everyone else to migrate. We are happy and ready to help!

## React 19 support

As of today, Material UI v5 and v6 support React 19. This has been one of our main focuses during the second half of 2024.

We've worked hard to ensure that the upgrade experience is as seamless as possible, and we're very grateful to all the community members who've been testing it out and reporting issues.

## Material Design 3

A year ago, we shared that we expected to have a Material Design 3 implementation ready by the end of 2024. 
Due to the more pressing efforts mentioned above, we have not been able to deliver on this yet.

> Updating the library's look and feel in such a big way is an incredibly complex undertaking that can't be rushed.
> We're committed to providing the best experience for all users and use cases, and we're working hard to determine the best way to accomplish that.
> This is one of our top priorities for 2025, and we'll keep you updated on our progress.

Reviewer 2: One final question for @aarongarciah: This section is ambiguous (by design), as we don't want to make false promises. What do you think about shortly acknowledging this? For example:

```suggestion
Updating the library's look and feel in such a big way is an incredibly complex undertaking that can't be rushed.
We're committed to providing the best experience for all users and use cases, and we're working hard to determine the best way to accomplish that.

We know this provides little detail into what to expect.
That's because we are still iterating on the solution, and even though we have an idea of the direction, we want to be sure of it before sharing more.
This is one of our top priorities for 2025, and we'll keep you updated on our progress.
We hope you understand.
```

This sounds a bit more apologetic, but I think it's the right tone to address the users that have been waiting for this for a long time.

Reviewer: For me as a user/reader, the phrasing above would make me lose some confidence in the project. How about a compromise somewhere in the middle that acknowledges the sparse details and kindly requests more patience? 😄

```suggestion
Updating the library's look and feel in such a big way is an incredibly complex undertaking that can't be rushed.
We're committed to providing the best experience for all users and use cases, and we're working hard to determine the best way to accomplish that.

This is one of our top priorities for 2025, and we'll keep you updated on our progress as soon as we have more definitive details to share.
Thank you for your continued patience.
```

Reviewer 2: Sam's version works for me 🆗

---
title: Material UI 2024 end-of-year updates
description: A look through Material UI during 2024, and a sneak peek of what's to come.
date: 2024-12-11T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['diegoandai']
tags: ['Material UI', 'Product']
manualCard: true
---

As the end of the year approaches, we want to take some time to review some of this year's highlights for Material UI and update you on what the community can expect moving forward.

## Material UI v6 release and support

We released Material UI v6 in August, offering new features, fixes, and a smoother migration experience. So far, almost a million users have successfully migrated.

The reception for the new version has been very positive, and we hope many more users can migrate in the upcoming months.

Our focus has been on responding to v6-related issues to support your migration. We thank everyone in the community who has helped by reporting or fixing problems and encourage everyone else to migrate. We are happy and ready to help!

## React 19 support

As of today, Material UI v5 and v6 support React 19. This has been one of our main focuses during the second half of 2024.

> Next up, we'll update Material UI's dependencies and type versions once React 19 is stable.

Reviewer 3: A new v5 release will be out today so the same applies to v5.

> Next up, we'll update Material UI's dependencies and type versions once React 19 is stable.

Reviewer 2: React 19 v5 PR is merged 🎉 Depending on the timeline, it might release before or after this blog, but it won't affect users that much. We can remove this line.

We hope you start trying it, and we're very grateful to the community members who have been and continue to test and report issues.

## Material Design 3

A year ago, we shared that we expected to have a Material Design 3 implementation by the end of 2024. Due to the efforts mentioned above, this has not been the case yet.

Updating the look and feel in such a big way is very complex. We want to provide the best experience for everyone and we're currently discussing and working on the best way to achieve it. This will be one of our main focuses for 2025.

## Looking towards 2025

We're planning a new major release for the first half of 2025: Material UI v7.

This version will fix issues that require breaking changes, including the long-awaited ESM support improvements, and other small fixes.

Note that, while this major release won't contain visual updates since its only focus is fixing bugs, we'll keep exploring the best way to update the look and feel in parallel. We'll continue sharing any details as soon as we reach any decisions.

## Follow along

> We'd love to chat with you and are as excited as everyone to update how Material UI looks and feels.

Author: It's running on the same "we", but I can separate into two sentences

> We'd love to chat with you and are as excited as everyone to update how Material UI looks and feels.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, I think I misread it 👍
